In the last lecture we learned how to store the token,
let's now use it.
We need it on that dashboard page for the outgoing request there,
if we have a look at our dashboard.vue file, it's
this get request which requires the token. First of all,
I want to move that request into an action too,
so in my store.js file, I'll add a third action next to login and dashboard
and here, I would simply name that fetch user,
you can name it whatever you want.
There we will get this context object where we can get the commit method out of it
and inside the action, I will use axios to get my user.
We have to be careful here,
the axios instance I import in the store.js file actually is the axios of instance which is the wrong one
for fetching user data.
Now to be even more precise, another problem we will face is that here I got some user data on firebase,
on that URL
I want to reach out to in fetch user due to an earlier module where we added axios,
right now when signing up however, we never store something in our firebase database, we only sign a user
up and that gets stored in some other database.
So there are two things I want to do before we can use our token,
the first is when we sign a user up,
once we did successfully sign up in the then block, I want to dispatch another action and also store
user data in the firebase database and not just in the firebase authentication database to which we
have no access.
The second thing I want to do is then fetch the user and for both storing and fetching user data outside
of the firebase authentication world, we need to set a different base
URL,
we import the wrong axios instance
so to say. Well that's no problem,
we can still import the main axios instance to, I'll name it global axios from axios,
you can give it any name you want
and now local axios is the axios instance I will use for storing and fetching user data.
Let's start with storing,
I want to do this once we did sign up and I will quickly create a new action store user, there
I want to extract the commit method like this and in store user, I will use my global axios instance,
send a post request, send it to
now we need that URL we have in the main.js file here, that that's automatically used as a
starting URL,
so now I only need to reach out to /users.json, as we did earlier, as we did at the beginning
of this module too.
So I now post my data here, the data I do want to post is data I expect to get here passed to this
store user action, so I'll name it user data here and I just want to pass it on
and then here we can also add a then block where I console log the response and a catch block for potential
errors,
so console log the error.
Now this actually should be dispatched when we actually get the user data, so once we did authenticate.
The good thing is this context object where we pull out commit also has the dispatch method as a property
so we can pull this out too
and once we did authenticate,
so in this then block, I can not only commit our mutation because I can set the token, the user is
authenticated at this point of time,
I can also dispatch store user
so this other action here and pass on my user data,
so I'll simply pass on a javascript object where I want to pass all the user data we have.
And here I will simply pass on auth data, that's the data I receive from my signup.vue file
and here, auth data is basically this object,
now I will change this to be my form data so that I get all this information. In my actions to avoid
confusion,
I still only submit the email and password from that bigger object here on signup
but once we did sign up, I take advantage of the same auth data object which contains my overall form
data to pass the overall form data,
so the whole auth data object here on to store user. And in store user,
I then use the global axios instance to post this data and store it in the database.
Now let's see if that works
and for that, I will actually first of all go back to firebase, to database there and then to rules and
I will also switch write to this alternative rule where only authenticated users may write because the
user should be authenticated at this point of time.
Now if we go back to our application here and I click on sign up and use yet another e-mail address I
haven't used before,
you can enter whatever we want for all the other fields, doesn't really matter it's not checked right now,
if I hit submit, I get an error for this post request even though authentication was successful.
Well the reason for this of course is that I don't pass on my token, I'll do that in a second before
I do that,
let me quickly also use global axios in fetch user so that when I fetch the user, we also do that with
the global axios instance
and there I also want to store the user data in my store,
so I'll add a user field which is null initially and then, I want to store the first user here.
So I want to commit let's say store user,
this mutation doesn't exist yet and I want to pass on users zero,
I still have my old code which I set up in the axios module where I pull out data, transform the object
I get back from firebase and create an array of users
and then I only store the first user in the store, here in the vuex store.
And that of course is not really a great app because the first user might not be the active user but here,
I just want to demonstrate how we can access the database.
So I'm storing this, I'm calling store user as a mutation,
well obviously I need to create that mutation so store user is created here,
it receives the state and the user
and then I just want to set state user equal to user. Finally with that, I'll add a getter and in this getter,
I want to get the user and for that in this user method where I also receive the state as an argument as
you learned it,
I just want to return state user,
we can now use this getter in the dashboard.
Let's use this getter here with a computed property in the dashboard component
and here I will add a property named email and on there, I will return this store getters user and then
there will be an email property on that user we stored in the store.
If this went a little bit too fast,
carefully move all through all these files,
I'm just using vuex to store some data.
None of that code will work though,
now one reason why it won't work is that I never dispatch the fetch user action,
so that's the first thing I'll actually do in the dashboard component in the created hook,
I still want to access my store and dispatch fetch user but the main reason why none of that will work
even if I change it like this, if I go to dashboard is of course that I as you can see by the unauthorized error,
that I never attach this token to my requests.
Now that is what I talked a lot about though,
so let's finally do it in the next lecture and we'll then also take care about this other error we see
here.